Israel and Hamas are close to agreeing
on a deal to release the hostages held
in the Gaza Strip that's according to
Israel's ambassador to the US Michael
Herzog herzog's words Echo those of an
earlier statement by the Qatari prime
minister at a joined press conference
with EU Foreign Affairs Chief Joseph
Burell Mohammad Alani said only Minor
Details remain to be agreed for Hamas to
free at least some of the more than 240
people kidnapped by militants in the
October 7th
attacks speaking in DOA qatar's prime
minister said only minor challenges
needed to be settled the deal is going
through uh uh ups and down from time to
time uh throughout the last uh few weeks
but uh I think that uh you know I'm now
more confident that we are close enough
to reach to uh a deal that can bring the
people will uh safely back to their
homes whether they are the hostages on
Hamas side or whatever the exchange uh
uh that will happen will take place from
the Israeli
side we can now speak to our
correspondent Rebecca ritters who joins
us from Jerusalem hello to you Rebecca
so just yesterday uh Israel's prime
minister Benjamin nanahu said there was
no deal on the release of Israeli
hostages from Gaza what can you tell us
about about the status of the
negotiations well Mariana this deal has
been in the making for some days we've
been hearing and you heard from the
Qatari prime minister there saying this
is a deal has been going up and down and
and that's precisely what what has been
happening there have been days where we
thought oh it's it's getting close to a
deal we're going to see some movement
and then you know we heard again from
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu last
night that in fact No Deal had been
reached we saw some reporting from the
Washington Post recently uh They said
that the deal was very close sourcing
sorry quoting us sources this deal is
between Israel us and Hamas it has been
getting uh you know closer and closer
and it certainly seems that we're at the
closest point that we've been so far the
deal appears to be for up to 50 uh women
and children civilian uh hostages to be
released in exchange for a 3 to 5 day
ceasefire uh from the bombard in Gaza to
allow for human humanitarian Aid to be
brought in and to of course allow for
those hostages to be taken out Hamas
also asking for a prisoner Exchange in
terms of uh some women and children that
are in Israeli prisons the sticking
point though seems to be that ceasefire
Israel worried that it will allow Hamas
time to catch up to catch its breath and
perhaps rearm in this war so when we we
we do appear the the the messaging the
wording coming out of all from all the
negotiators is positive uh and it does
seem that a deal is getting much closer
but still we haven't seen uh that come
to fruition yet and now Rebecca we've
also heard that more than 30 premature
babies have been evacuated from gaza's
alifa hospital what do we know about the
operation that made this
possible well it was certainly array of
good news array of Hope in this
otherwise really devastating War uh
these babies 31 to be exact have been
evacuated from the hospital it's been
really uh on top of the priority list
for noos and for the medical workers
inside the hospital to evacuate those
babies once their incubators turned off
uh over the weekend because of a lack of
fuel to run the generators in the
hospital and now we have seen that
success that successfully happen it was
a a procedure carried out by The Who in
conjunction with the Palestinian red
president Association uh and of course
the military as well the Israeli
military needing to oversee that as well
to make sure that they were granted safe
passage we know now that they're safely
in the South or as safe as uh anyone can
be in Gaza at the moment the reality
that there is no safe place in Gaza but
those babies now uh moved to a hospital
in the South there is paperwork and
Arrangements being made that they will
potentially be allowed to cross into
Egypt be taken over with some staff and
be looked after in an Egyptian Hospital
hital there now there are still up to
300 people both patients and Personnel
in the hospital very very sick patients
complicated uh to have evacuated and
that is the next part of the process to
make sure that they are able to also
evacuate from
alifa that was DW's Rebecca ritters
reporting for us from Jerusalem Rebecca
thank
you